Dr. Sadao Hoki's house was built on a spot off the Japanese coast. As a little boy he had often played there. His low

square stone house was built above the narrowbeach. His father had taken him often to the islands not far from the

shore. He would say to the serious little boy at his side.

"Those islands out there are the stepping-stones to the future of Japan."

"Where shall we step from them?" Sadao had asked.

"Who knows?" his father had answered. "Who can limit our future? It depends on what we make it."

Sadao had paid attention to this as he did everything his father said. His father never joked or played with him. However,

he gave all his attention to his only son. Sadao knew that his education" was the most important thing in the world to his

father. For this reason he had been sent at twenty-two to America to learn all that could be learned of surgery and

medicine. He had come back at thirty. Before his father died, he had seen Sadao become famous not only as a surgeon

but as a scientist. Sadao was now working on an important medical discovery, so he had not been sent abroad with the

troops. He also knew there was a chance the old General might need an operation. This was another reason why Sadao

was being kept in Japan.

The weather had been surprisingly warm for the past few days. There was heavy fog at night.

The door opened and Hana looked out. She was wearing a dark-blue kimono'. She came to him affectionately. She put

her arm through his, smiled, and said nothing. He had met Hana in America, but he had waited to fall in love with her until

he was sure she believed in traditional Japanese values Otherwise, his father would never have received her. He thought

about how lucky he was that he had found her by chance really", at an American professor's house.

The professor and his wife had been kind people. They wanted to do something for their few foreign students". The

students, though bored Sadao had often told Hana that he had almost not gone to Professor Harley's house that night.

But he had gone and there he had found Hana, a new student. They had not married carelessly in America. They had

finished their studies and had come home to Japan. After his father had seen her. the marriage was arranged in the old

Japanese way, although Sadao and Hana had talked everything over before. The were perfectly happy.

She laid her cheek -against his arm. It was at this moment that both of them saw something black come out of the mists".

It was a man. He was thr0u.n out of the ocean by a wave''. He staggered a few steps. his arms above his head. Then the

mists hid him again.

"Who is that?" Hana cried. She dropped Sadao's arm and they both leaned over the railing' of the Now they saw him

again. The man was on his hands and knees crawling". Then they saw him fall on his face and lie there.

"A fisherman perhaps." Sadao said, "washed from his boat." He ran quickly down the steps. Behind him Hana came,

her wide sleeves flying. A mile or two away on either side, there were fishing villages.

Somehow the man had managed to go through the rocks. He must be badly hurt. They saw that the sand on one side of

him was red.

"He is wounded-." Sadao exclaimed. He hurried to the man. ,ho lay there without moving. his face in the sand. An old

cap stuck to his head. His clothes were wet rags.

Sadao stoopedh. Hana at his side, and turned the man's head. 'hey saw the face.

"A white man!" Hana whispered.

Yes, it was a white man. His wet yellow hair, long, as though had not been cut for many weeks . On his young and

tortured- he had a  rough yellow beard. He was unconscious. Sadao remembered the wound and with his expert fingers

began to search for it. Blood flowed freshly" at his touch. On the right side of his lower back Sadao saw that a gun wound

had been reopened. The flesh was black. Sometime not many days ago, the man had been shot and had not been

saved. It his bad luck now that a rock had struck his wound.

"Oh, how he is bleeding!" Hana whispered again. The mists lid them completely now. At this time of day no one came

by. The fishermen had gone home.

"What shall are do with this man?" Sadao said.

But his hands seemed to have a will of their own. They worked to stop the bleeding. The man moaned with pain but he

did not awaken".

"The best thing that we could do would be to put him back in the sea," Sadao said, answering himself.

Now that the bleeding was stopped for the moment, he stood up and dusted the sand from his hands"'.

"Yes. that would be best," Hana said. But she continued to look at the man.

"lf we sheltered" a white man in our house we would be arrested. But if we turned him in as a prisoner, he would certainly

die," Sadao said.

"The kindest thing would be to put him back into the sea," Hana said. But neither of them moved.

"What is he?" Hana whispered. "There is something about him that looks American," Sadao said. He picked up the cap.

"A sailor," he said, "from an American warship." He spelled it out: "U.S. Navy." The man was a prisoner of war! "He has

escaped,"Hana cried softly, "and that is why he was shot." "In the back," Sadao agreed. They hesitated, looking at each

other. Then Hana said, "Are we able to put him back into the sea?" "If I am able, are you?" Sadao asked. "So." Hana

said. "But if you can do it alone ..." Sadao hesitated again.

"The strange thing is," he said, "that if the man were whole6 I could turn him over to the police without difficulty. I care

nothing for him. He is my enemy. All Americans are my enemy. -And he is only a common fellow. You see how foolish his

face is. But since he is wounded ..."

"You also cannot throw him back to the sea," Hana said. "Then there is only one thing to do. We must carry him into the

house."

"But the servants"?" Sadao asked.

"We must simply tell them that we plan to give him to the police. And we must, Sadao. We must think of the children and

of our position1. It woiild endanger all of us if we did not give this man over as a prisoner of war."

"Certainly," Sadao agreed. "I would not think of doing anything else."

Together they lifted the man. He was very light. They carried him up the steps and into an empty bedroom. It bad been

the bedroom of Sadao's father. Since his death it had not been used. They laid the man" on the floor mat. Everything

here had been Japanese-to please the old man. Sadao's father would never in his own home sit on a chair or sleep in a

foreign bed Hana went to the wall cupboards and slid back a door) and took out a soft quilt. She hesitateds. The quilt

was covered with flowered silk.

"He is so dirty," she whispered.

"Yes, he had better be washed," Sadao agreed. If you will bring hot water I will wash him."

"I cannot bear for you to touch him," she said. "We shall have to tell the servants he is here. 1 will tell Yumi now. She can

leave the children for a few minutes and she can wash him."

Sadao thought a moment. "Yes," he agreed. "You tell Yumi and I will tell the others."

The whitenessS of the man's face moved Sadao to feel his pulse. It was faint" but it was there. He put his hand against

the man's cold chest". The heart too was still alive.

"He will die unless he is operated on," Sadao said. "The question is whether he will not die anyway."

Hana cried out in fear. "Don't try to save him! What if he should live?"

"What if he should die?" Sadao replied. He looked at the motionless man. This man must be very healthy or he would

have been dead by now. He looked so very young.

"You mean die from the operation?" Hana asked.

"Yes," Sadao said.

Hana thought about this and when she did not answer, Sadao turned away.

"In any case something must be done with him," he said, "and first he must be washed."

He went quickly out of the room and Hana came behind him. She did not wish to be left alone with the

white man. He was the first she had seen since she left America. He seemed to have nothing to do with

those whom she had known there. Here he was her enemy, a threatI5, living or dead.

She turned to the nursery and called, "Yumi!"

The children heard her voice. She had to go in for a moment and smile at them and play with the baby,

now nearly three months old.

To Yumi she said, "Come with me!"

"I will put the baby to bed," Yumi said. "He is ready."

She went with Yumi into the bedroom next to the nursery. She stood with the boy in her arms while

Yumi spread the sleeping quilts on the floor and laid the baby between them.

Then Hana led the way quickly to the kitchen. The two servants were frightened at what their master

had just told them.

"The master ought not to heal the wounds of this white man,"

The old gardener said to Hana. "The white man ought to die. First he was shot. Then the sea caught

him and wounded him, with her rocks. If the master heals what the gun did and what the

sea did, they will take revenge on us."

"I will tell him what you say," Hana answered politely. But she herself was also frightened, although she

was not superstitious as the old man was. Could it ever be right to help an enemy?

Nevertheless, she told Yumi to bring the hot water to - the room where the white man was.

She went ahead and slid back the partitions". Sadao was not, there yet. Yumi, following, put down her

wooden bucket". Then she went over to the white man.

"I have never washed a white man," she said, "and I will not wash one so dirty now."

Hana cried, "You will do what your master commands you!"

"My master ought not to command me to wash the enemy," Yumi said stubbornly.

The look upon Yumi's round dull face made Hana feel afraid.

What if she should report" something that was not as it happened?

"Very well," she said with dignity. "You understand we only want to bring him to his senses so that we

can turn him over as a prisoner?"

"I will have nothing to do with it," Yumi said. "I am a poor person and it is not my business."

"Then please," Hana said gently, "return to your own work."

Yumi left the room. But this left Hana alone with the white man. She might have been too afraid to stay,

but her anger at Yumi gave her courage".

"Stupid Yumi!" she said. "Is this anything but a man? A wounded helpless man!"

She untied the rags that covered the white man. She dipped a small clean towel into the steaming hot

water and washed his face carefully. She kept on washing him until his upper body was quite clean. But

she dared not turn him over.

Where was Sadao? Now her anger was disappearing and she was anxiousg again. She got up and

wiped her hands. She then put the quilt over him so he wouldn't be cold.

Sadao!" she called softly.

He had been about to come in when she called. She saw that he had brought his surgeon's emergency